---
layout: post
title:
version: v0.44.0
modified: 2018-01-29
category: releases
tags: [v0.44.0]
comments: false
share: true
---

Changes from v0.43.1

# BAM!

`kallisto` can now project pseudoalignments from transcripts down to genomic coordinates. This requires a GTF file corresponding to the transcriptome used to construct the index. The resulting BAM file is sorted by genomic coordinates and indexed. 

- `--pseudobam` option works as before in transcript coordinates, but creates a single output `pseudoalignments.bam` in the output folder. This mode no longer writes SAM format to standard output, but writes the binary BAM file directly. Multithreaded `--pseudobam` works now
- `--genomebam` option writes pseudoalignments to the file `pseudoalignments.bam` in sorted genomic coordinates, requires a `--gtf` option and optionally a `--chromosomes` options set.


### quant mode

Adds a `--single-overhang` option that does not discard reads where unobserved rest of fragment is predicted to lie outside a transcript. This is mainly useful for mapping 3' biased reads from single cell experiments.

### JSON output

Adds QC information to `run_info.json` in the output folder

The added fields are
- `n_pseudoaligned` : number of fragments that could be pseudoaligned
- `p_pseudoaligned` : percentage of fragments that could be pseudoaligned
- `n_unique` : number of fragments that could be pseudoaligned to a unique target sequence
- `p_unique` : percentage of fragments that could be pseudoaligned to a unique target sequence
